>> Steve Kinney: We talked a lot about
mocking and stubbing and spying,
and even in this case there is
the what about the backend, right?
And there is a bunch of really great
tooling to help you solve for this issue.
One of them, and
I'll kinda bring up the website and
I'll show you some example code is
this App called Mock Service Worker.
And all this really does is you can
use it in development in the browser.
You can also use it in your tests.
I'll show you an example in a second
of the app that I have it working with
where basically a service worker is
something for progressive web apps.
But like It allows offline use of
a web app and so on and so forth.
What a service worker does in real
production practice is the stands between
you and the network.
So if you're offline, it can intercept
a network request and fill it in and then
when you're online sync back up, a service
worker intercepts a network request.
That's interesting, right?
So what you can do with a service worker,
and
what mock service worker will do for
you, is you can basically say, hey,
here's a bunch of endpoints where I
don't want you to hit the server, right?
What I want you to do is just return
this object back to me, right?
So you can basically mock the backend,
right, and
have it just respond with
known good objects so
you can continue your testing and totally
separate yourself from the backend.
This is useful for a few ways.
One, you test one super fast because
it's not hitting the real network.
Two, they pass because it's not
hitting the real network, right.
Three is that you can start working
on APIs before they're done, right?
Cuz you can mock out just one or
two given APIs, right?
So if we look at that task list that
we had before, so check it out.
This is like, here we can just
basically put in a bunch of handlers.
In this case, we can do something like,
>> Steve Kinney: Or something like this,
and then we can have it basically,
>> Steve Kinney: You can say HTTP response
and then that takes an async request,
like a callback.
It can say like, hey,
>> Steve Kinney: I have two
fake tasks in this JSON file.
So okay,
whenever somebody goes to hit / does a get
request /api/tasks,
block it hitting the network.
Ignore that, right?
And instead,
what I want you to do is like,
>> Steve Kinney: Right?
I guess I don't need the request
on that one, per se.
And what this will do, and
this will work in your unit tests.
You can actually spin
it up in the browser.
As well so
it'll work in Playwright too, but
there's actually something even better for
Playwright.
We'll talk about it in a second.
But now in your unit test,
you can basically pull in this server and
have it basically mock
out all network requests.
So now instead of hitting the real API,
you can have it hit just some
standard responses, right?
And you can do a whole bunch of stuff
with like put and patch and get and
stuff like that.
But what's really cool is you
can use different responses for
different tests, right?
And so like cool, have like an admin
account set of responses, right.
And so instead of hitting the real
network you can, kind of like,
fill in again the tasks is
just two fake tasks, right?
And so
now it's never gonna hit the real network.
But you're not, like,
stubbing weird stuff in your code.
You're only the boundaries of your app
is it was leaving your app to go hit
the server, right?
This is stopping it at the very like,
borders of your app and saying, like,
yeah, here's what you could have expected
to get back from the server, right?
Wicked fast, right?
Able to change based on, like, what
you want to test at that given moment.
Maybe I want bad data.
Maybe I want a 404, right?
You can kinda do all of those things and
just like,
if you've ever written an Express App, or
even if you haven't, like,
going back into this handlers, right?
Like, it's a get request to this route.
Other than this, like, thing that was
just gonna do the rest of the, like,
HTTP response stuff,
we're just responding back with JSON of
what we wish that API would have given us.
Great for
endpoints you don't have yet, too.
The nice part is you're not doing
weird stuff to your code, either.
You're just saying cuz you never
controlled what the server did in your
code, unless you are also
testing the server,
at which point you do own that as well.
But also great for
developing things that maybe you don't
like the APIs that aren't ready yet.
My least favorite thing as a front end
engineer Is every other team takes
a little longer than expected, but
the deadline didn't change [LAUGH].
So if I wait for the API to be done, I
ain't got enough time to build the thing.
So for instance,
we could do like a post as well.
Like in this one we want
the request object.
So that will have been the request
from the quote unquote client.
At this point, yeah, we're just doing
like, that one, I just want the title,
>> Steve Kinney: Here as well and
then we'll just say, I've got this
fake create task function that does,
I wrote the server, so
I happen to know what the server does too.
Granted, I don't use a real database or
anything.
So then we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: Title and
I could push that onto the array,
too, if I wanted to.
I can make it work as close
to a real server as possible.
Now, the problem is, generally speaking,
you do need to like, at what point are you
simulating the server so much that you've
just rewritten the server, unclear, right?
And so that's why I'm not pushing it out.
I'm not pretending like it's
a real server, too much.
But now you can theoretically post a new
task to it, and this will then send
back the response that I would have
gotten from the server, right?
And you just kinda get that.
So now you can use that in
your unit tests, right?
Cuz now it'll intercept
those requests too.
From fetch and we'll just respond
back with it immediately.
You can use it in development.
The one thing that we're using
a little bit in Playwright,
which is,
>> Steve Kinney: If you've ever
gone to the network tab in Chrome,
a lot of times for an API request,
it would be like copy HAR.
You can copy like the full request and
response.
And basically,
you can tell Playwright like, hey,
just like when you hit this endpoint,
respond with this HAR file.
But what's even cooler Is
right here where you can say,
hey, give me the request that I
would've gotten for this endpoint.
But if you are able to hit the network,
record it.
So now what you can do is you can fire
up Playwright, you can start writing
the test against real production server or
staging or whatever,
record all the network requests, have it
store them and then play everything back.
And so if, even if you did like a,
Hey, get me all the tasks,
post a task, get all the tasks again,
it keeps the order right?
And so you will get like a recording
of all the network requests.
So now,
when we think about what we saw before,
you can basically turn
on this recording mode.
And so what we're doing with it is we,
there's a few bad things that I,
mistakes that I made early days.
I forgot to think about dark mode ever.
That was a three months of
my life I'll never get back.
I wasn't as great as I should
have been on responsive design.
Do you know how much it stresses me
out to retrofit in a mobile view?
And so what we're basically doing is
we have it set up in our cloud thing,
we're setting up the open source side,
which is fire up a Playwright browser
at all the different viewpoints,
record all the network requests for
a bunch of different cases, and
then take screenshots, right?
And that way if we accidentally
regress the tablet view while working
on the mobile view,
I've got visual evidence, right?
And we can kind of see.
And this is like, again, right,
it's about how do we do this big refactor
without like breaking stuff,
which is to first surround it in tests,
right, to the point where
we feel confident, right?
Yeah, we might break something, but the
ideas that we see before our customers do.